Connectors - A device for plugging into port or interface to connect to other device. 
EXAMPLES:
RJ-11 Register Jack -> Four wire connectors (four wires inside the jack)
    Usually for telephone jack, but for wireless, they connect to modems to computers. Has a hinged locking tab to lock into place. Resembles RJ-45
RJ-45 -> Eight wire connectors. 
    Most common network connector, and used with unshielded twisted pair cabling (UTP). They are commonly used to attach network interface card to hubs or switches. RJ-45 is larger than RJ-11...
RJ-48C -> SAME THING AS RJ-45... BUT
    Used with PROTECTED (Shielded) twisted pair (STP) cabling. Primarily used with T1 lines and wired differently than RJ-45.

UTP vs STP
Obvious... STP has additional shielding material so that it can cancel any external interference that might be introduced at any point in the path of the cable...

SN: T1 line can carry about 192000 bytes per second, which is roughly 60 times more data than your usual normal residential modem. They are faster due to Fiber Optic Line. 
UTP coupler connects UTP wire to the RJ-45. Typically used when running longer cable is not an option... Just makes the UTP wire longer.

BNC connector Bayonet Neill-Concelman connector connects RF connectors. Usually for analog and digital video as well as audio.

Analog - Waves of data that is demodulated/interpreted with diodes. But it can be interferred very easily... Can not be copied easily and will easily degrade.
Digital - 1s and 0s of data, due to either 0 or 1 waves, it can not be interfeered very easily. Can be copied easily and not easily degradable

BNC coupler - Connects two coaxial cables with BNC connectors. BNC is a female to female coupler...

Fiber coupler - Connects two same fiber optic connectors. 
DON'T GET CONFUSED WITH FIBER ADAPTER 
Fiber adapter - Used to connect two DIFFERENT fiber optic connectors. 

There are alot of fiber connectors (see fibercable connectors.gif)

F-Type Connector - Threaded connector used for coaxial cable. This screw on connector is usualy used for cable providers for cable modems. Tightended by attached nut.

USB connector - Two types, Type A and Type B. Type A is the USB with four wires and Type B is USUALLY two wire. (Type B is generally smalle)

IEEE 1394 - AKA FireWire - D shapped ending, usually used for digital cameras/printer (multimedai/video devices) rather than network connection.

MT-RJ - Mechanical Transfer Register Jack - Fiber Optic Connector. Instead of the screw connector or latched connector, it uses latched push-pull connector. This small form factor used, for high packed density.

ST - Straight Tip - Half twist/Bayonet type of lock. Used commonly with single mode fiber optic cable.

LC connetor - Local connector - Uses a jack similar to RJ-45 Style and commonly used between floors on a building 
    Push-Pull connector 

SC connector - Standard Connector - Uses push pull connector. Commonly used between floors on a building. 
    AKA Square Connector (looks like a square)
    Second Most Common

SC - Mainstream, reliable, fast deployment, field fit. Wider spread then LC
LC - High Density, cost effective, field fit. Half the size of SC, so common in central offices.
ST - Used for durability, so it's common in places such as campuses. 

RS-232 Connector - Recommended Standard - Used to transmit using serial refers. Serial refers is sending data one bit at a time. 
    Common Form of RS-232 is DB-9 and DB-25 (9 cable vs 25 cable)

APC vs UPC connectors
UPC connectors - Due to the imperfect surface area at the tip of the optic cable, the tip can have small area between them. Thus, light can be reflected back, causing signal loss.
APC connectors - This connector fixes this signal loss by having a slight tilt between each tip where the connection is made. So the light is tilted to the wall of the cable, thus reducing signal loss.