OSI Model
Open Systems Interconnect Model - Standard used for network communication to take place. How information from a software in one computer moves to another computer. Breaks down the data communication in seven layers.
Goes like 
    7. Application
    6. Presentation
    5. Session
    4. Transport
    3. Network
    2. Data Link
    1. Physical
Data flow will move like this...
A computer (sender) will send the data by having the data move from 7 (Application) to 1 (Physical). Then the data will go through the internet and will go from 1 (Physical) to 7 (Application).

7. Application - This layer manages communications between applicaion. Supports protocols such as SMTP, HTTP, FTP. Data is still somewhat readable in this layer. 
6. Presentation - This layer is where data is converted into a form that can be sent over a network. Data, in this layer, is compressed/decompressed or encrypted/decrypted. AKA translation layer 
5. Session - Controls the network by establishing, managing, and terminating connection between local and remote application. 
4. Transport - Provides the transfer of data between end users, by resending any packets. This layer is the layer that guarantes that packets are received. 
3. Network - This layer is resposnsible for routing the data packets to its ip address. Fragments/reassembles packets and instructs data of how to get to its destination (ip address)
2. Data Link - Responsible for sending data ot the physical layer, and where data packets are encoded/decoded into bits. Handles flow control (management of data flow so it doesn't cause data overflow 
(which will mean data needs to be retransmitted due to loss of data)). This layer is divided into two sub-layers - Media Access Control Layer (handles MAC addresses) or Logical Link Control Layer(LLC, the layer that checks controls frame synchronization, flow control and error checking.) 
1. This layer defines the network standards/physical characteristcs of network. Ex) Connectors, media types, cables... This layer is the layer that defines the topology of a network. 
